[Applause]
[Music]
well thank you guys and thank you for
the video so the good news is that video
is the punchline to the story that I
really want to tell you which is that I
end up building a billion-dollar company
I end up very far from where I began
doing things that I never would have
dreamed that I'd be able to accomplish
but the most important thing to
understand about me knowing where I end
up is that I am NOT a born entrepreneur
there's a lot of people out there these
days that are born entrepreneurs I know
there's a lot of people of the head
before it seem like they could walk they
were snatching flowers out of somebody's
yard and selling them back to the
personnel in the house but that was not
me so I had a paper route and the paper
route was the payment for it was
bifurcated into two parts the first part
you just got automatically for
delivering the papers and the second
part was you had to knock on people's
doors and collect the money and I was so
afraid to go knock on the doors that I
never ended up collecting the second
half of the money so even though I was
supposedly on this entrepreneurial
venture I was so scared that I was
making half the money that I could have
made and that was how I grew up I grew
up in a family that teetered between
white collar and blue collar one minute
my dad was a purchasing manager at a
paint company the next he was a mechanic
sort of bounced back and forth my
parents taught me to be a good employee
which meant keep my head down do as
little work as possible and avoid
punishment at all costs and that was
really where I grew up and I thought
that that made a lot of sense and I
cheated my way through high school I
also thought that made sense and then
when I was about to go to college
I almost chickened out I had taken the
SATs twice I got a 990 combined score a
monkey smearing feces on the test can
actually get a better score than that it
was absolutely heartbreaking but it felt
so reflective of who I believed myself
to be I didn't think of myself as smart
I didn't think I was well educated I
didn't certainly didn't think I was
smarter than the next person
and I remember I told my mom that I
didn't want to go and she like went nuts
and she was like there's absolutely no
way you've got
go and she all but kicked me out of the
nest now the great irony is she then
spends the next 20 years trying to claw
me back so I was like mom what gives I
don't understand like you were the
reason I was willing to stay home I was
more than happy to live that small life
you were the one that made me one of
only two people in my entire graduating
class to leave the state
so why and she said I never wanted you
to say what if I never wanted you to
look back on your life and wonder what
could have been if you had tried and
then she said with absolutely no malice
in her heart but I just assumed you were
gonna fail but that was the only
reasonable assumption to make about me
at the time I was profoundly lazy
I felt really lost I didn't know how to
get out of life what I wanted I had
applied to one school other than the
state school and that was because
someone had made a random comment that
it was the best film school which was
USC film and I knew I wanted to be a
filmmaker I had that dream and so my mom
kicked me out of the house she doesn't
tell me at the time that she thinks I'm
gonna fail she's my biggest cheerleader
she's wanting me to do well she sends me
off I go there and I realize I've made a
catastrophic mistake and I've been
accepted to USC the school but not USC
film school I didn't even know you had
to apply separately that's how blindly I
went into this that was my approach to
the world right keep my head down do as
little work as possible avoid punishment
at all costs I figured that college was
gonna be an extension of high school so
I go to the guidance counselor and the
guidance counselor says look I see this
all the time you're not going to get
into film school it is statistically
speaking harder to get into USC film
school than it is to get into Harvard
Law so what you're doing right now is
you're taking film classes like you've
already been accepted I'm telling you
it's gonna end up costing you a year of
your life and extra money because you're
not
going to get in now one thing I'm gonna
tell you right now the greatest gift
anyone can ever give you in life is
doubt when someone doesn't believe in
you that's the single most profound gift
that they can give you and I told them I
was going to get into film school and
they said look I'm telling you right now
it's going to be a mistake but there was
nothing they could do to stop me so I
started taking classes of it as if I had
already been accepted to film school and
I said alright this is my dream this is
the thing that I want to do and I know
that I've up to this point been
incredibly lazy in my life but if this
is what I want if this is the thing that
supposedly is my passion this is the
thing that my life is building towards
it doesn't make sense to be cheating I'm
gonna about to take tens of thousands of
dollars in student loans to pull this
off why would I want to cheat my way
through this and so I went and found out
who was on the admission committee to
USC film school and I took him to lunch
and I said what do I need to do to get
into film school they said well you need
a 1300 on your SATs I said I have a 990
so what's the way around that and he
said well look there's actually two
times where we accept people into film
school as you're an incoming freshman
and then as an incoming junior so we
said the SAT just stands for scholastic
aptitude test is supposed to tell me how
well you're gonna do in college but if
you've been in college for two years I'm
just gonna look at your grades so Tom
I'm gonna give you a secret if you get
good enough grades I'm not even gonna
look at the rest of your application so
I said all right and for the next two
years I locked myself in a room I did
not date I did not party I didn't drink
a drop of alcohol I didn't smoke weed I
didn't play video games nothing all I
did was work and I told myself
ERF sink or swim I'm not gonna cheat not
once and I ended up getting better
grades than I'd gotten in high school
and the one thing that my mother had not
accounted for when she
silently thankfully thought that I was
going to fail was my ambition what I
hadn't learned yet was Drive and I was
beginning to get the first taste of what
Drive looked like so I buckled down I
got the grades I got into film school
and then everything started going right
for me it was magical my first set of
films were great they captured the
attention of the class because of that
in the next round of film school I got
the ideal partner that everybody was
trying to get to make their big film I
made that big film and then from that
it's called a 3:10
from your 3:10 film four people in the
entire class get chosen to make a senior
thesis film now remember I was the kid
with the 990 on his SATs who was told he
would never get into film school I get
into film school then the odds are
against me that I'll make a senior
thesis and I get to make the senior
thesis and it was amazing and I was over
the moon and I believed in my talents I
knew deep down I was born for this I was
made to make movies it was in my DNA the
very thing that made me me my entire
sense of identity and who I was was that
I was a great filmmaker and I had just
been proving it for two years I had
captured the imagination of my entire
class and here was my moment I was going
to make the senior thesis film it was
going to be amazing it was going to give
me a three-picture deal in Hollywood and
my life was gonna be set and then I
failed completely
and I failed completely because I was
utterly devoid of talent
now this is true and in that moment I
realized I had no idea how to tell
stories I had no idea how to make movies
and the reason that I'd gotten as far as
I'd gotten up to that point was you were
telling an artificial kind of story
short films silent films was totally
different language totally different how
you put the camera and for whatever
reason I made one simple choice on
accident that paid off that made me
think I was talented and that was I just
didn't tell stories where you expected
people to be talking which is the
mistake most film makers make they
trying to tell a normal story but you
can't hear anything so super weird and
so that one sort of accidental decision
convinced me that I was talented and
then when the reality check of failing
so publicly in front of my entire class
having to screen it in front of my
family who'd flown down it was
heart-wrenching and people were making
fun of me not even behind my back they
were making fun of me to my face film
school in LA
boys and girls certainly back then was a
brutal dog-eat-dog world and when they
smelled blood in the water they went
after me and it was gut-wrenching
and I remember calling my mom from a
payphone laying on the ground in the
middle of campus because I felt so
broken everything about who I thought I
was was gone in an instant and my mom
just didn't know what to say and so that
began a period of my life where I felt
utterly hopeless completely lost and my
parents stopped helping me financially
when I graduated so there I was I did
not have my three picture deal I'm
laying on the floor in the middle of
campus I can't afford rent at one point
after graduating I was laying on my
carpet because I couldn't afford
furniture and I was just laying on the
floor of my apartment saying where where
do I go from here I have no idea how to
break into the film industry I'm not a
talented filmmaker anyway so what does
the rest of my life look like and it
felt so hopeless and I was flirting with
depression and I had no idea how to get
out of it
and then I lucked into a teaching job
and I started teaching filmmaking and
the fascinating thing was I knew how to
help the students get better and so this
notion that I had in my head that you're
either born with something or you're not
you're either a born filmmaker or you're
not you're either a born entrepreneur or
you're not began to waver and I began to
think wait a second if I can help them
make their films better why can't I help
myself make my own films better and I
went back into that mode that got me
into film school and I put my head down
again and I started working my ass off
and every night to be able to go in and
teach a class the next day I worked and
I study then I tried to figure this
stuff out and bring it in so I could
teach them to help them improve and in
doing that I was reinforcing in my mind
that I could change that I could improve
and at that time for those of you that
remember this the idea of brain
plasticity was debated people said
you're born with a certain number of
neurons and you just lose them over your
life can't teach old dogs new tricks
there's no way to get better and aging
was this one rate one-way road to
nothingness of becoming less of yourself
day after day after day and in that I
started to question that now today we
have words for it it's called a growth
mindset but Carol Dweck had not yet
written her seminal book by that name so
I was stumbling my way through this
trying to figure out just how far I
could push my talents how far could I
take this could I get really good and
then I meet this incredible woman I fall
for her in a way that never fallen for
anybody in my life she's from London
very successful father who took himself
from living in a small village in Cyprus
which I had never even heard of
I'd never passport at the time took
himself from a small village in Cyprus
began living on his own at the age of 11
and worked his way up to running one of
the largest shipping companies in the
world took himself from abject poverty
the kind of poverty you can't imagine
where you can't afford meat that your
family eats meat once a year
from a goat by the weight that you raise
and slaughter and took himself to being
wealthy and very successful flash
forward I'm in love with this woman and
I go to this man and I asked for his
blessing to marry his daughter and he
says no that was hard to hear and he
asks me one very simple question now at
this time by the way I don't have a job
I'm living at his ex-wife's house my
soon-to-be mother-in-law his daughter is
the breadwinner she's going to work
every day while I stay at home and he
asks me one question
my daughter has become used to a certain
lifestyle how do you plan to take care
of her and I said to him sir I know what
you see right now is a broke kid with no
job but I'm telling you I'm the most
ambitious person you've ever met but the
truth was while I had that dream I knew
what I wanted to become I wasn't doing
anything about it because they didn't
understand the difference between
ambition and drive and add this period
in my life I would lay in bed for up to
three or four hours every morning
because it was warm under the sheets and
it was cold out of them and I didn't
want to walk the four steps to grab my
clothes to put them on I wasn't clever
enough to think I'm gonna take this
sweatshirt and put it right next to the
bed so I can warm up before I get out
that's seven years before I'm a
multimillionaire
and there I am laying in bed not having
any idea how to solve the problem of
being so cold I can't get myself out of
bed and I start to feel a deep shame
about Who I am
because I promised this woman that I'm
gonna make her wealthy one day and there
I am laying in
and the only thing that finally gets me
out is I know she's gonna come home
everyday for lunch
and at that point I need to get out of
bed quickly make her lunch so that she
doesn't see that I've been laying in bed
all morning
and that shame starts to intensify so
much that I hit a breaking point and I
realized I can't marry her in good
conscience telling her father that I am
going to take care of your daughter I'm
gonna make her rich I will take care of
her in a way that is gonna shock you one
day I can't say that and keep acting the
way that I'm acting and I started
thinking about my time as a teacher and
I realize I can get better but I've got
to hold myself to a standard I've got to
work I've got to figure out this thing
called Drive I've got to get up and get
going I've got to become unstoppable and
I'm here to tell you right now becoming
unstoppable is the thing it is very real
and has everything to do with who you
want to become and has nothing to do
with who you are today so I began to
think about the person I wanted to
become I stopped worrying about who I
was right now and I began to paint a
vision of how the person would act that
I want to become and I began to act in
that fashion now growing up there were
two things that I promised myself that
would happen now this is as a slightly
chubby kid growing up in a morbidly
obese family in Tacoma Washington hey
hey to come in the house
and I said one day I'm gonna be rich and
one day I'm gonna have six-pack abs that
was the promise but I know how it's
gonna achieve either of those things my
wife and I end up moving back from
London to LA I start teaching again it's
going well it's reinforcing that belief
that I can change I can become what I
want to become I feel myself getting
stronger I'm reading a lot for raesha
Slee I have this mathematical equation
that I live by I I equals I owe ideas in
equal ideas out don't worry about
whether or not there are new thoughts to
think worry only about that you have a
unique mind based on your time based on
your experience
based on the things that you've read and
you will synthesize those ideas in a
unique way so I start reading
voraciously trying to get anything that
I can into my mind and as I'm doing this
as I'm really realizing what it takes to
actually grow and become different two
guys walk into my class and they're
wealthy entrepreneurs who also happened
to be body builders so I'm like you've
got to be kidding six pack abs and money
like this is nuts and these guys say hey
look we're about to start a company it's
a technology company why don't you join
us we need a copywriter but don't think
of yourself as a copywriter you can have
any job in the company that you want you
just have to become the right person for
the job and I'm thinking these guys are
my white rabbit they've got money
they've got six-pack ABS I can learn a
lot from them so even though everybody
thinks I'm crazy to leave the job
teaching which is a stable job to go
with these guys who are probably
biessing me and follow them into this
startup but I do it and there's a whole
bunch of us that they make that same
statement too you can have any job in
the company you want you just have to
become the right person for that job and
when it started we were in this
beautiful conference room overlooking
the Pacific Ocean
everyone had Florida glass or
floor-to-ceiling windows
looking out at the Pacific Ocean except
for me and I was put in the server room
if you've ever seen a server room they
are dark
they have whirring sound of all the
computers processing everything and I
remember one of the guys asking me who's
the kid in the server room and that's
where I started I started at the bottom
and one by one I watched other people
fall away people that didn't want to
work the amount of hours they didn't
want to put in the effort to get better
they weren't prepared to become somebody
new they were trying to capitalize on
who they were but by that point I really
believed that could become somebody else
and I remember saying to my wife we're
going to move and we're gonna get an
apartment that's no more than seven
minutes from either of the two guys that
hired me they were the two partners in
the company and I said the reason I want
to do that is if they call me at 2:00
a.m. in the morning I want to be able to
get there in less than ten minutes and I
want them to know no one is more serious
about taking advantage of this
opportunity than me no one in this
company is willing to work as hard as me
not only will I be the only one that
shows up but I'll show up in less than
ten minutes and so my wife agreed and we
moved and we actually timed it every
time we found an apartment that she
liked we would drive first one time it
back drive to the other one time it to
make sure that I could get there in less
than ten minutes and that began to
create momentum for me and I began to
move up in the company and I began to
read and learn and fail and embarrass
myself and I remember when it started I
knew nothing about business and I
remember whenever we would do a
conference call there would be one part
of the call where I would get to
contribute this is this is true and that
part where I got to contribute was
saying goodbye and I used to get so
excited like here it's coming we're
wrapping up this is amazing
goodbye and that was my contribution and
that's where I started as an
entrepreneur I did not start as the guy
with the lemonade stand I did not start
as somebody buying baseball cards and
selling them back I started out
literally as a who knew absolutely
nothing but I had the
live to learn now if you guys have been
keeping up with brain science I am here
to tell you right now you can become
anyone you want now the process of
taking myself from scrounging my couch
cushions to find enough change to put
gas in my car to building a
billion-dollar business was all about
building a set of beliefs now I believe
that the matrix has us all I don't
actually think we live in a simulation
but I think the movie The Matrix is the
perfect metaphor for the human
experience we have all pulled a web of
lies over our own eyes and the web of
lies is what you tell yourself about
what's possible for you and for the
world and once you get that web of lies
over your eyes you simply see it as
reality and you don't understand that
each one of those fundamental beliefs is
alterable that you could choose to
believe something else in fact you don't
even realize that they are beliefs
Einstein as a quote it's one of the most
important quotes in my life the most
important question any man must decide
for himself is whether or not he lives
in a friendly or hostile universe now
what I love about that quote so it's
hiding in it is that it's a decision you
get to choose whether you're living in a
friendly or a hostile universe there's
no objective reality it just is what it
is you're gonna get what you see you're
gonna get what you focus on and you see
what you focus on so the more you focus
on the world works against me I've got
bad luck the more you're gonna see proof
of that you're going to seek it out
you're going to act in accordance with
that belief if on the other hand you
believe the human potential is nearly
limitless that the human animal is by
its very nature the ultimate adaptation
machine think about this for a second
humans are the apex predator unlike
anything else the world has ever seen we
can live in any corner of the globe from
the Arctic
to the deserts at one point James
Cameron was literally at the bottom of
the Marianas Trench which is the deepest
part of the ocean
humans can not only get there they can
thrive now nature had to make a decision
with every animal do we create something
that comes pre-programmed think of a
horse when a horse is born it can
already run jump walky
a human on the other hand takes the
opposite approach where nothing is
pre-programmed but now you can go in any
direction when humans are born we can't
hold our own head up this is something
that really freaks me out
humans are so incapable of taking care
of themselves you could literally lay an
infant next to a bottle and it would
still starve to death we can't hold our
own head up we poo in our diapers we are
literally in need of constant care for
years of our lives now this comes with a
benefit which is that we can adapt in
any direction that we want and the most
beautiful part of this is it never stops
even as you get older you can decide
that you want to go in a different
direction you can change the course of
where you're headed and so in this role
that I found myself as budding
entrepreneur I set out to learn
everything that I could to understand
what is my goal and then to work my way
backwards one of the most profound
things that ever happened to me
and if you guys haven't read the book
anti fragile buying the seem to leb do
in that book he lays out the difference
between something that is resilient and
something that is truly anti fragile I'm
gonna say somebody that's unstoppable is
truly anti fragile and what anti fragile
is the more you attack it the stronger
it gets there's something that is
resilient or tough it is still defined
by its breaking point the more you go
after it eventually it will break
something that's anti fragile grows with
that and I believe each and every one of
us can build a mindset that is truly
anti fragile there is only one thing
that I have found
that is actually anti fragile and it
looks like this I was there with my
partners they routinely made me feel
stupid all the time they were older than
me they were more than 10 years ahead of
me on their entrepreneurial journey and
so I was just wrong all the time now up
to that point in my life I actually
called myself the king of remedial jobs
up until then I'd only gone for jobs
where I knew I'd be smarter than the
person interviewing me I knew that at
some point during the interview they
were gonna ask that magical question
which made me feel so good about myself
which was why are you here why are you
interviewing for this job and I lived
for that because it made me feel smart
so here I am now not in that world
anymore I'm with guys who are way ahead
of me they're way smarter than me and I
feel dumb all the time and one day I
find myself arguing for this path in our
business because it was my idea and I
knew it was wrong that was the hilarious
thing I knew it was wrong and yet I was
arguing for it like really passionately
and then all of a sudden it actually
worked and they agreed to do it and I
thought oh
now what I've been telling my wife that
I'm gonna make her rich and here I am
arguing for something that just makes me
feel good about myself and I had this
moment of crisis
and I asked myself no judgment what do
you really want because if what you
really want is to feel good about
yourself to feel smart to be right to be
worthy if those are the things that you
want then get out of this company
because you're wrong often you're making
mistakes all the time and your partners
are so far ahead of you that they make
you feel stupid so this is like that
doesn't make any sense so if you want to
just go feel good go back to being the
king of remedial jobs be in places where
you're always feeling smart where you're
usually right and live that life but if
on the other hand what you really want
is to actually reach your goals then
you're gonna have to stop worrying about
feeling good about yourself and both of
those felt flawed
everybody needs to feel good about
themselves that that's just the reality
of being a human you've got to find a
way to feel good about yourself but I
really believe everything you do in life
should be in service of your goals and
the moment that you're acting out of
alignment with your goals you might have
a problem with your goal or with your
behavior one of them is gonna have to
change and so I realized in that moment
that I needed to change what I was
building my self-esteem around because I
was building it around being right and
that was wrong so much I was building it
around being smart and I just wasn't
that smart I was building it around
being good and worthy and the fact is
those are just judgements on myself and
so I decided right then and there it's
the one thing in my life that borders on
truly being an epiphany and I realize I
need to change what I build my
self-esteem around and it needs to be
something that I didn't have the word
anti fragile at the time but something
that the more somebody goes after it the
better off I'm going to be the more it's
gonna push me towards my goals and that
thing is and if somebody has a better
answer I will take it but the only way
to build your ego that is truly anti
fragile that I have found is to be the
learner to be willing to admit when
you're wrong to look at your goal and
work backwards and say is what I'm doing
actually moving me towards my goal or
not not does it make me feel good about
myself not am i right
not am i smart is it moving me towards
my goal and if it is then you do it and
if it doesn't then you don't and my life
became that cut-and-dry and you can
literally draw a line in the sand a
demarcation point of my life before that
and my life after that and after that I
suddenly found myself just wanting more
knowledge I wanted to know what I was
doing wrong I wanted to know where I was
making mistakes because and this is so
important because at that moment I
realized skills have utility once you
understand the whole reason to acquire a
skill is that it gives you power now I'm
going to define power power to me is the
ability to close your eyes and
in a world the world the way you wish it
was and then open your eyes and make
that world come true that's power and
the thing that stands between you where
you are today and your goals where you
want to get is a gap in skill set it is
a gap in abilities and once you're
willing to look naked Liat your
inadequacies to literally build your
self-esteem your entire sense of
self-worth and value is built around one
thing whenever you face an obstacle
whenever you face a difficulty whenever
you fail you have one thing that you say
to yourself
on a long enough time line I can learn
this when you switch your life around to
that whatever your goal is here whatever
part of the honors Club or the leading
edge you're at or if you want to go
beyond that whatever that is
wherever you want to go plant that flag
identify the skills that you would need
to get there and then set about everyday
getting those skills here's the problem
I find most people have they judge
themselves to the lens of a moment they
fail at something they miss the honor
club they don't close that deal they
thought they were going to they
embarrass themselves they flub something
and they think that defines who they are
but I'm telling you right now you're not
defined but who you are you're defined
by who
you want to become and the price you're
willing to pay to get there so flash
forward I start putting all this to use
in my life I am focused only on what I
can learn I'm no longer being held back
by my ego we work and work and work we
take that technology company up becomes
the 42nd fastest growing company in
North America on paper I'm a
multimillionaire I had earned sweat
equity in the company by working so hard
I didn't ask for a raise for five years
I just went after it I worked every day
seven days a week to the point where at
six and half years my wife had to pull
me aside and said is now damaging our
marriage I was so into it I was so
committed to
where I wanted to go that I was really
learning and I was getting more powerful
I had the ability to imagine something
and then make it come true with my
abilities and in that process I began to
realize whoa like you can really become
what you want to become and I had on
paper become a multimillionaire I was
making more money than I've ever made
before in my life and I went in and I
quit and I quit because I was so
profoundly unhappy because I realized
somewhere in this race of becoming the
best version of myself somewhere in this
race of trying to get wealthy I'd
completely lost touch with what made me
love life and I was living the cliche of
money can't buy happiness means
literally ridiculous and so I go into my
partners and I say look here's your
equity back I just can't do this anymore
I've got to live a life that makes me
feel alive I want to have fun like this
is just crazy and they said we could do
this without you but we don't want to
and so that let me connect with
something other than the money for the
first time in six and a half years and
so at that point I'd already quit so I
thought I don't have anything left to
lose and so I confessed I said look my
highest priority in business is
Brotherhood
it's camaraderie it's the people I'm
with and what I had learned at that
point is the struggles guaranteed the
success is not if you're really striving
for something it's going to be hard it's
gonna be really really hard and it's
going to force you to adapt and grow and
become a better version of yourself and
that can be the single most beautiful
process of your life if it's aimed at
something you care about and so I said
well the only way that I'll come back is
if we sell this company we create
something that's predicated on value we
focus on building a community we focus
on connecting with our customers with
really doing something amazing that
we'll be proud
that will have passion for there's a
great quote often attributed to mother
Teresa
nobody will act for the many but people
will act for the one and so I started
thinking about my mom and my sister
morbidly obese I knew I was gonna lose
them too early if somebody didn't solve
that problem and so for three very
different reasons we decided to sell the
technology company and start a nutrition
company and when we started that company
everybody told us we were crazy there
were 1600 protein bars already on the
market when we started quest the
category had been declining for years
one potential distributor actually said
I need another protein bar like I need
another hole in the head that sound
familiar with your guys's circumstances
it's not a great time in your business
not a lot of inventory in that same
setup by focusing on what we loved doing
what made us feel good on what would be
beneficial to the customer providing
exceptional customer support
evangelizing our customer at every turn
doing only that which was going to
actually help my mom and my sister which
was not always the most profitable by
the way in fact it usually wasn't but it
made us feel good about who we were and
so we didn't know if we were gonna build
a big business but we knew that we were
gonna believe in it we knew that we were
gonna be passionate about it we knew
that we were gonna touch people's lives
and that became the rallying cry for the
business actually deliver value do
things that other people just can't
imagine and that's how we went from not
existing to being valued at over a
billion dollars in less than five years
just as we are coming out of the Great
Recession into an industry that was
oversaturated and declining because let
me tell you something right now and burn
this into the core of your soul there's
always room for the best there's always
room for the best and if you're prepared
to become the best you can be
unstoppable you can build something
other people think is impossible you can
build something out from under a
mountain of doubt and that brings us
back to my father-in-law
the man who had asked me how I was gonna
take care of his daughter he's always
been very kind to me it's important to
note that always very kind to me and he
came out to LA and by this point we're
doing hundreds of millions of dollars in
revenue we've got 1400 employees
millions of dollars of equipment
hundreds of thousands of square feet of
space and I'm walking him around the
production floor bars are coming off the
line at the rate of 1.5 million a day
and I said Andre as' do you remember
when you asked me how I would take care
of your daughter and he said yes I said
how am i doing and he just started to
cry that to me is everyone's story
everyone can choose that journey now I
don't make a moral distinction I don't
think that it's the right way to live
your life it just happened to be the way
that was true for me I believe the very
meaning of life is to find out how many
skills you can acquire that have utility
and then put that utility to the test in
service of someone else
it's what the ancient Greeks call techne
I've worked my ass off for this set of
skills they are unique to me and they
help other people and in being able to
help other people with something that I
worked very hard for I feel good about
myself and I will make you guys one
promise right here today the game you're
playing please listen to this so that
you don't end up wasting years of your
life like I did mine the game that
you're playing is not success the game
that you're playing is not money the
game that you're playing is brain
chemistry
it's about fulfillment the only thing
ultimately that's ever get
matter in your life is how you feel
about yourself when you're by yourself
the things you say to yourself quietly
in your mind when no one else is around
that's what matters and becoming
somebody that you're proud of in
whatever way you define that is
completely open to you humans are the
ultimate adaptation machine we can grow
in any direction it is what we are
designed to do what scientists used to
call junk DNA and they were so confused
because humans only have 20,000 genes
some onions have 40,000 genes and they
thought this can't be onions just aren't
more biologically complicated than
humans so what's going on and then they
realized all that junk DNA that they
were dismissing that's epigenetic
information meaning this one animal this
human animal is designed to respond
we don't come pre-programmed we come
ready to adapt we come ready to change
we come ready to grow and once you know
that that is the nature of being a human
that that is the beautiful gift of this
life is to see how much you can grow in
whatever direction you want towards
whatever end you want but the gift that
you have been given is the ability to
change so if you don't like who you are
today that's okay it doesn't matter who
you are today it only matters who you
want to become and the price you're
willing to pay to get there thank you
[Applause]